README.md, before:

# Notes Repository

This repository is dedicated to writing and organizing notes about different programming languages and frameworks. It serves as a comprehensive reference for developers to quickly access important information, best practices, and code examples.

## Contents

### Java folder:

- **Java Core**

  - Method Overriding
  - Method Overloading
  - Polymorphism
  - Final
  - Abstract Class
  - Interface
  - Class Loader
  - New Keyword
  - Anonymous Object
  - Enums

- **Spring Boot**

  - DI injection methods in spring boot
  - JSP
  - DTO validation
  - JPA notes
  - How to build a REST API?
  - Most used Dependencies
  - Spring Boot Annotations
  - AOP Notes
  - Spring Boot Request Lifecycle
  - Explain Servlet and Servlet Container
  - Explain Spring Boot Container
  - What is Bean?

### javaScript folder:

- **NestJS**

  - How does NestJS handle dependency injection?
  - Key properties of `@Module`
  - Request lifecycle
  - What is the purpose of the Reflector class in NestJS?
  - How do you implement custom decorators in NestJS?
  - How do you handle file uploads in NestJS?
  - How do you implement custom pipes in NestJS?

## Purpose

The purpose of this repository is to provide a well-structured and easily accessible collection of notes for developers. It aims to:

- Help developers quickly find information about various programming languages and frameworks.
- Serve as a study guide for learning new technologies.
- Provide best practices and code examples for common tasks.
- Facilitate knowledge sharing among developers.
- Encourage contributions and improvements to the notes.
- Help developers prepare for interviews and technical discussions.

Feel free to contribute by adding new notes or improving existing ones.

Commit message:

Update README.md to clarify the repository's purpose and enhance its role as a resource for advanced topics and interview preparation.

README.md, after:

# Notes Repository

This repository is dedicated to writing and organizing notes about different programming languages and frameworks, and documenting advanced topics or situations that face use in the daily work.
It serves as a comprehensive reference for developers to quickly access important information, best practices, and code examples.

## Contents

### Java folder:

- **Java Core**

  - Method Overriding
  - Method Overloading
  - Polymorphism
  - Final
  - Abstract Class
  - Interface
  - Class Loader
  - New Keyword
  - Anonymous Object
  - Enums

- **Spring Boot**

  - DI injection methods in spring boot
  - JSP
  - DTO validation
  - JPA notes
  - How to build a REST API?
  - Most used Dependencies
  - Spring Boot Annotations
  - AOP Notes
  - Spring Boot Request Lifecycle
  - Explain Servlet and Servlet Container
  - Explain Spring Boot Container
  - What is Bean?

### javaScript folder:

- **NestJS**

  - How does NestJS handle dependency injection?
  - Key properties of `@Module`
  - Request lifecycle
  - What is the purpose of the Reflector class in NestJS?
  - How do you implement custom decorators in NestJS?
  - How do you handle file uploads in NestJS?
  - How do you implement custom pipes in NestJS?

## Purpose

The purpose of this repository is to provide a well-structured and easily accessible collection of notes for developers. It aims to:

- Serve as a study guide for learning new technologies.
- Provide best practices and code examples for common tasks.
- Facilitate knowledge sharing among developers.
- Help developers quickly find information about various programming languages and frameworks.
- Encourage contributions and improvements to the notes.
- Help developers prepare for interviews and technical discussions.

Feel free to contribute by adding new notes or improving existing ones.
